Title:
Intentional Opportunity Giving:  Showing Empathy in Challenging Situations

Talk Format:  60 Minute Workshop

Audience Level:  All


Abstract:
300 words or less elevator pitch

Have you encountered a situation where a high performing team had it’s trust broken because of an unexpected aggressive behavior?  Or walked into a heated argument and not sure how to react?

Beyond practices, the heart of agile is centered around continual learning and improvement.  The learning opportunity is most often provided in the form of feedback, both negative and positive.  Most often times, feedback is presented in a negative manner or taken as such.  

Intentional opportunity giving is a strategy to help you see opportunities in challenging conversations and help others see empathy so that the team can navigate themselves back to a safe zone in order to receive feedback.

This session will immerse you in real life scenarios.  You, the audience, will participate in hands on activities where you are a part of a team.  You will play out a scenario and use the Intentional Opportunity Giving strategy to navigate your team out of your situation to safety.

Description:  (Learning Outcomes)
You should make the description of your talk as compelling and exciting as possible.  Remember, you’re selling both the organizers of the events to select your talk, as well as trying to convince attendees your talk is the one they should see.  

Every situation is unique and often involves a variety of emotions and streams of data.  Therefore, our success in being able to calm an intense situation and have crucial conversations is heavily dependent upon our ability to bring people back to safety.  
To re-establish safety after an intense situation, we have to understand the “why” behind that situation.
To overcome the dysfunction of a team, we have to understand the history of each individuals on a team and how those experiences influences certain behaviors
An Intentional Opportunity Giving approach requires us to pivot our thinking to pull information rather than push and use use Agile practices to help others see opportunity.

Notes:
Notes will only be seen by reviewers during the CFP process.  This is where you should explain things such as technical requirements, why you’re the best person to speak on this subject, etc...


This talk will be done with a partner who will help me coordinate activities with the audience.  We will break up the audience into groups of four; each group will be given a different scenario to play out.  There will be three different mock scenarios that are all based on real life experiences from teams that my partner and I have coached to high performing.  Attendees will walk away with a kit that they can take back and try out with their own teams.  

Tags: Coaching/Mentoring, Collaboration/Culture/Teams  

Bio:
Your bio sells you.  Who are you?  Why should people listen to you?  Who’s your favorite member of One Direction?  This is your chance to put it all out there.

